**Assessing High-Resolution CubeSat Imagery and Machine Learning for
Detailed, High Resolution Snow-Covered Area.** Anthony F. Cannistra,
Nicoleta Cristea.

**Section X:** [Results]{.underline}

Here we divide the evaluation of our snow classification model into
three assessment frames. We first show that a model fitted with data
from the Upper Tuolumne Basin, California, USA (see Section X) produces
snow classifications in alignment with other state of the art snow
observing methods when assessed using out-of-sample data also from
Tuolumne. Second, we find comparable performance when assessing the same
model (fitted with Tuolumne data) using out-of-basin data from the
Gunnison River/East River Basin, Colorado USA (see Section X). Third, we
show that our model has promise in its ability to fill temporal data
gaps in other remotely-sensed snow cover products.

**X.1**: [Classification Performance]{.underline}

**X.1.1**: [Upper Tuolumne Basin, CA, USA]{.underline}

Coming soon.

**X.1.2**: [Gunnison River Basin, CO, USA]{.underline}

We evaluate the out-of-basin model performance of the Tuolumne Basin
snow classification model using a single Planet Labs, Inc imagery
collection in the Upper Gunnison/East River Basin, Colorado, USA (Figure
X2; Panel A. Image *20180524*\_172637\_0f2d), paired with a
contemporaneous ASO collection (ASO/NSIDC ID:
ASO\_3M\_SD\_USCOGE\_*20180524*). When comparing against binary ASO
ground-truth snow cover, the out-of-basin model performs as well or
better than two other comparably high resolution snow cover products
(Landsat 8 fSCA and Sentinel-2 NDSI, see Section X) across all four
computed classification metrics (Figure X1; red bars).
![](media/image1.emf){width="6.5in" height="1.7763888888888888in"}

**Figure X1:** Out-of-basin model performance of the Tuolumne Basin snow
classification model in the Upper Gunnison/East River Basin, Colorado,
USA (red bars) is as good or better than two other high-resolution snow
cover data products (blue bars). These metrics are computed using ASO
ground truth snow classification at ASO (3 meter) resolution (all
products are interpolated to 3 meter resolution for comparison).

However, the Tuolumne model exhibits patterns of systematic
misclassification in constrained geographic regions in the out-of-basin
image sample (Figure X2, Panel D). In particular, the model fails to
accurately identify snow-covered regions in low-elevation or densely
forested regions (Figure X2; Panel D, red regions.). Smaller regions of
inaccurate classification exist in rocky alpine areas, where the
Tuolumne model misidentifies snow-free regions as snow-covered (Figure
X2; Panel D, blue regions).

![](media/image2.png){width="6.5in" height="2.9430555555555555in"}

**Figure X2:** Results from a machine learning-based snow classification
model (**B**) show both agreement and systematic divergence (**D**,
Model -- ASO difference map) from a contemporaneous Airborne Snow
Observatory observation (**C**) in the Upper Gunnison River Basin,
Colorado, USA (**A**). Red dotted line delineates region of overlapping
data availability. Satellite imagery and ASO data acquired 24 May 2018
(Planet Labs, Inc. asset 20180524\_172637\_0f2d; ASO/NSIDC ID:
ASO\_3M\_SD\_USCOGE\_20180524). Image assets are property of Planet
Labs, Inc and are used with permission.

**X.2**: [Temporal Gap-Filling]{.underline}

To evaluate the potential of this approach to fill observation gaps in
other snow covered area products, we compare pixel-level difference from
a coarser-resolution fSCA product (in this case Landsat 8) to both
ASO-derived fSCA and model-derived fSCA. These fractional measures are
computed by averaging the high-resolution binary product (ASO/model) to
a coarser resolution matching the temporally-sparse data product being
compared, see Methods. We find similar distributions of difference from
ASO and our Tuolumne-trained model (mean differences of -24.00% and
-15.40%, respectively; Figure X3, distributions). Landsat 8 demonstrates
a more homogeneously negative skew when compared to ASO than the
corresponding distribution between Landsat 8 and the model
classifications (Figure X3, maps).

![](media/image3.tiff){width="6.5in" height="4.481944444444444in"}

**Figure X3**: Similar Landsat 8 fSCA difference distributions exist
between the Tuolumne-based model and ASO. Red regions are areas of
Landsat 8 under-identification of snow relative to compared data, and
blue regions are areas of Landsat 8 over-identification. Histograms
demonstrate the distribution of pixels in each difference map. Data are
compared at Landsat 8 resolution (30 meters).
*This file was autogenerated from artifacts/manuscript/results_draft.docx*
